
Results, Discussion, and Conclusion (RDC)
 
Once you are done collecting your data, you can begin drafting your Results and Discussion sections.
Start your assignment with your info and Research Question(s) – as usual.
 
NB: Do not mix between results and discussion unless you’re doing interviews/analysis/experiments/observations only as your methodology, and for this you need special permission from your instructor (send an email seeking approval). Otherwise, and as long as you have a survey, the Results and the Discussion are separate sections in your paper.
 
 
What is the difference between both sections; Results and Discussion?
 
 
Results/Findings (choose one name):
The Results section provides description for the findings. It is presenting the data you got from your investigation using your data collection instrument/tool:
 
• It is important here NOT to get into interpreting these results or what they mean. You just have to be descriptive.
 
 
• The Results section presents your findings in the form of:
o Non-textual followed by textual form (graphs, tables, and charts followed by texts)
o Textual form only (paragraphs)
 
NB: Open questions in the survey can be presented in textual (paragraph) form only. Use as many quotes from the responses as you wish.
 
NB: Interview findings do NOT need to appear under “results”. Present them and analyze them under “discussion” only. Use as many quotes from the responses as you wish.
 
NB: Demographic graphs (e.g. age, gender, nationality, etc.) are NOT presented under Results. They are presented (or referred to) under Methodology (participants/sample).
 
 
Checklist of the ‘Results/Findings’ section:
 
o Non-textual followed by textual form (graphs, tables, and charts followed by explanatory texts). The graphs and charts:
1. Are they clear and neat looking? i.e. Contrastive colors were used and appropriate sizes were chosen?
2. Do they all have indicative titles (above)?
3. Are they all labeled (below)? (e.g. Fig. 1, Fig. 2, etc..).
4. Are they described and explained in text? (i.e. not interpreted but explained in terms of what they represent).
5. Are they void of spelling mistakes and typos?
 
o The Textual Form (paragraphs):
1. In the case of open questions, you need to report on your findings in the form of a verbal textual description.
 
………………………………………………………………………………………………
Discussion:
• The Discussion section is the place where your voice appears again.
• You start reflecting, thinking, analyzing, interpreting, explaining, and commenting on the results you obtained.
• Explain what those results mean to you and your research.
• Explain how far those results agree or disagree with the literature findings (use citations from your literature at this point). Add new references if needed.
• Explain how far your hypotheses (if any) are supported.
• Break down to paragraphs as you see fit.
 
Checklist of the ‘Discussion’ section. Interpreting the meaning, value, and the indications:
1. Does it start by summarizing the Results? (just a summary not a repetition of the findings!)
2. Does it explain the findings and what they mean to the study?
3. Does it refer sufficiently to the literature? Does it connect the findings to the literature, e.g. to support it or to refute it?
4. Is more reference needed?
5. Does the researcher (e.g. you) need to find additional sources to further understand and interpret the findings?
6. Does it refer to the hypotheses (if any) and explain to what extent they have been supported or not?
 
 
NB: It’s recommended to start this section (RDC) with a blurb summarizing the methodology and explaining (briefly) that what’s next follows from the methodology. If you didn’t mention your data analysis method in the Methodology, then here is the place to do it (in the blurb).
 
………………………………………………………………………………………………
 
 
Conclusion:
The Conclusion section summarizes the entire paper and makes sure to provide an answer to your research question(s).
 
 
Checklist of ‘Conclusion’:
1. Does it summarize the whole paper?
2. Does it address the initial Research Question(s)?
 
 
NB: End this assignment with only the references used in this section. Then later on, the References will all be placed in one place at the end of your completed research paper.